# CS-465-Full-Stack-Development
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

# Portfolio Reflection
It was interesting using multiple different types of front-ends when working on this project. I used Express HTML, Javascript, and a single page application (SPA). They each had their advantages and disadvatages, but they were all relatively easy to implement. The fact that they all use Javascript as a base made it easy to implement and refactor code for each front-end. The SPA made interactivity very easy to add to the application and Javascript made it easy to connect to the MongoDB database, while using Express HTML made it easy to make a good looking web application. The back-end used a NoSQL MongoDB database because a non-relational database offers things that a relational database like SQL can't. One of the largest benefits is that the data in the database doesn't need the same categories of information as other entries due to the fact that the data is stored in documents and sub-documents as opposed to a table with rows and columns.
JSON is different from Javascript in that JSON is a file format and Javascript is a programming language. That being said, since all aspects of the MEAN stack framework are based in Javascript, JSON files can be used to tie the front-end and back-end of the web application together. That's because Javascript can very easily read and manipulate JSON files and objects. There were multiple instances where I refactored the code of the web application in order to improve functionality and efficiencies such as when I refactored the static HTML code to use dynamic Javascript, and when I refactored the code to implement a database. The database would provide all the information for the page as opposed to having it hard-coded in. The benefits that come from reusable UI componenets are that it minimizes the amount of programming that the developer has to do, and mitigates the number of mistakes they might have made if they needed to duplicate their code. It implements DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) coding principles into the web application.
I tested the endpoints of the web application with API testing with the Postman software tool. I used the tool to make sure that each of the endpoints I implemented in the web application directed to where they wer supposed to and had the information they were supposed to. When I implemented the security authentication, I made sure that the secured endpoints threw the proper exceptions and that when provided the correct JWT token, the proper information for the endpoint was loaded.
This course has helped me learn how to create and manage both ends of a web application as a full-stack developer. I've learned how to refactor code and connect it to a database so that the only manipulations to change the application are changes to the database entries. I've learned how to implement interactivity in the application so that an administrator can add and edit entries in the database, but only after they've become a user and logged in. Learning all these skills from this class have helped my employment opportunities because a genuine full-stack developer is considered a unicorn in the field of software development and makes me a much more marketable candidate.
